>>The debate about who
wrote Shakespeare rages on.
But could it have been a woman?
Let's enter the buzzsaw.
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome to "Buzzsaw," where
we cut through the mainstream
narrative to explore
the hidden truths.
I'm your host Sean Stone,
and joining me today
is Joseph Atwill, who
has studied extensively
the origins of Christianity,
including the Dead Sea Scrolls.
After publishing his bestselling
first book, "Caesar's Messiah,"
he released a followup in 2014
called "Shakespeare's Secret
Messiah," which alleges that
the author of the Shakespeare
material may have actually
been the Dark Lady, Amelia
Bassano, who,
according to Atwill,
was aware of the Roman
origins of Christianity
and revealed this
knowledge covertly
through the
Shakespeare material.
So Joseph, I want to start
by basically asking you
about how you came
across Amelia Bassano
as a potential candidate,
because obviously we've
heard throughout the years of
everyone from Francis Bacon
to DeVere to Shakespeare
himself being the real author,
but this notion of Amelia
Bassano is quite novel.
Where did that come from?
>>Right.
She had been
completely overlooked.
I really wasn't aware of
anyone else that had ever
suggested that she could
have been the author, which
in hindsight is
actually preposterous,
because if you actually
do a mapping of the data,
the actual knowledge that
the author of Shakespeare
possessed, which has been done
now by other scholars, Bassano,
Amelia Bassano stands out as
by far and away the strongest
candidate, because she had
all of the arcane aspects.
She had a connection
into the theater.
She knew Italian.
And she was able
to make Hebrew puns
because her family was Jewish.
I didn't basically
discover Amelia Bassano
and then try to fit her into
the Shakespearean literature.
What happened was is I
read "Titus Andronicus,"
the Shakespearean play.
And I could see
that that play was
in fact showing an
awareness of the typology,
the Flavian typology
that I presented
in "Caesar's Messiah."
And then when I read the
other Shakespearean plays,
I could see that in fact
that awareness of the Flavian
typology was everywhere.
In fact, many of the
plays were simply
based upon it completely,
like "Titus Andronicus."
But "Titus Andronicus"
is very special,
because the title "Titus
Andronicus," what drew me to it
was the fact that the
name of the main character
is Titus and the person
who basically produces
the Gospels is Titus Flavius.
But the second character's--
the second name is what really
attracted me, Andronicus,
because Andronicus was one
of the very few people that
had ever sacked the temple
of Jerusalem.
I think it's in 2
Maccabees, the story
of his sacking-- Andronicus
sacking the temple of Jerusalem
and stealing artifacts from it.
So the author had joined
these two individuals
into this character, Titus
Andronicus, which clearly
seemed to be
suggesting something
about the destruction of
the temple of Jerusalem,
which was a military
victory of Titus Flavius.
And so that was what
drew me to the play.
When I read the play, I
could see very obviously
that this was reversing the
typology, the bitter humor
that's found in the Gospels,
which on a broad scale
basically is just lampooning
the Jewish messianic family
for eating the Messiah.
I mean, this is the
sad but honest truth
about the dark joke
inside of the Gospels.
And in Titus Andronicus,
this is reversed
and it is the Gentile
royal families that
end up eating their own flesh.
But there are many,
many other elements
that would suggest a
connection, none of which
had been seen by scholarship.
And one of the things
that just froze me
in place, which I don't
want to be long-winded,
but I just need this
one example of support.
I was reading along and
trying to understand the play.
And at the very
beginning, there's
a passage where the
brother of Titus
is said to be someone
who kills flies.
And it says it doesn't
become the brother of Titus
to be a killer of flies.
And the author repeats the
concept, the brother of Titus
that kills flies.
Well, if you're
classically educated,
you know that Titus Flavius'
real brother Domitian
was famous for killing flies.
So I knew at that
point, wait a second.
This is a cryptic
representation of the Flavians.
And I knew that the author
was aware of the humor
in the Gospels.
>>Well, that obviously
indicates precisely
a certain classical education,
perhaps Hebrew origin.
But who is Amelia
Bassano herself?
>>OK.
Well, from there, I tried
to determine who was
the author of this material.
Who could have wrote a Jewish
response to the Roman gospels,
right?
And in England at
that time, there
were very few people
that could have.
There were very few.
And the only real writer
was Amelia Bassano.
Amelia Bassano was the
daughter of a family
that had come from
Italy, from the region
that the Italian
plays are set, Verona,
"Romeo and Juliet," "The
Merchant of Venice."
So the family had
come from there.
Henry VIII had brought the
Bassanos, five brothers,
to England to help
with his court music.
They were musicians and
they also made instruments.
So they were converso.
The family had been
originally Jewish.
It was illegal to
practice Judaism
and so they had converted
ostensibly to Christianity.
In fact, her father had
taken the name Baptista,
just to make sure
everyone knew that he had
gone through the experience.
So she was their daughter.
She was an extraordinary
language expert.
She was a language tutor.
So she had from her family
the background in Italian.
As a language tutor, she
would have been familiar
with Latin, French.
And because the family
clearly understood Hebrew
to some extent, that
was where the Hebrew
puns that I discovered
in Shakespeare came from.
She had direct connections
into the theater.
The individual that
she was the mistress of
owned the Globe Theatre.
So when you start--
when I started
looking at this individual
and started just
plugging in her
life into the plays,
then suddenly I could
see, wait a second.
She's the author.
And then they both,
both Shakespeare
in the sonnets
and Amelia Bassano
in her play "Salve Deus"--
because Amelia Bassano was
the first woman to ever actually
copyright a work of literature.
She's the very first.
And so she copyrighted
a poem called
"Salve Deus Rex Judaeorum,"
"Hail God, King of the Jews."
It's like, what kind
of an expression?
And so in the play,
there is a pun on Will.
She makes this pun
on the name Will.
And in the sonnet,
she makes a pun
that actually is very parallel.
And see, this was when
I knew I was dealing
with the author of Shakespeare,
because in addition
to all these other elements that
are almost unique, when you add
to that the idea that
they're both putting
on Will in the same way,
then of course-- actually,
she's making an expression.
She's actually
telling us that, look,
I produced the literature.
I don't think she
was the only author.
I think she had help.
There were individuals
around her.
And you can say this in
the preface to the folio,
that there are other
people that were involved,
but she was the primary author.
>>I can understand at
the time, for example,
that if it wasn't because she
was a woman that she might want
to mask her identity,
perhaps because
of the political
ramifications of the work
and the fact of her family
being of Jewish origin,
do you think that would
be the main reason she
would want to mask it?
Or was there something
else that was implied?
>>Well, why she would
mask the authorship?
>>Yes.
>>The comedy they're
engaging in is
a reversing of what the
Flavians did to the Jews.
You'll have to kind of maybe
go further back into her life
than we can in
this time, but she
had many reasons to
be personally engaged
against the divine
right of kings
that the Catholic and then the
Protestant kings maintained.
And they took this
right from the Gospels.
So she wanted to write
a response to that.
Now, the key element
of the Gospels
is that it's
crypto-Gentile writing.
It purports to be written
by Jews about a Jew.
But when you place the writing
inside of the Flavian court
and you look at this
character, the Son
of Man, that the
Gospels supposedly
are predicting,
what they're doing
is the Gentiles are
organizing Jewish literature
to their way of wanting the
political structure to exist.
And then they're also
very subtly putting
into the Messianic
lineage, the lineage that
produces the kings, a Gentile.
So what Bassano does
is this very skillful
crafting to reverse it,
whereby in "Titus Andronicus"
you have a character named
Shakespeare writing it.
Now, even the name Shakespeare
is in fact in this comic vein.
On the folio, the name is
given Will Shake hyphen Speare.
This is basically
"Will shake spear."
It's a martial declaration
that the real author is leaving
for us about this character.
So you have a purported Gentile
writing about the Gentile
nobility cannibalizing
themselves.
And so by doing that, by
having a fictional Gentile,
Amelia Bassano was able to
make a complete and perfect
literary reversal.
Really what's inspiring her is
the fact that she knew bloody
well that the Gospels
were eventually
going to be understood, and
that the Flavians had written it
as a kind of comic
pie in the face
they were going to deliver
to the Jews in the future.
This was their hope.
They had that much hatred.
She wants to do a
reversal of that
and to say, look, you think
you're the only ones who
can do this kind of foolery?
And so that the whole literature
of Shakespeare, sorry to say,
is in fact a comic pie in
the face to the Gentiles
that this organization produced
so that later in the future,
when the interpretive
framework would be resolved
and the Flavians would have
their moment of glory, finally
here we are.
We wrote the Gospels.
See us as geniuses.
Well, this literature would
stand there as a response.
>>But she wasn't
alone, obviously,
if you're talking
about a collaboration.
>>Right.
>>So who was the network of
people that are collaborating
and what is-- and obviously,
they're coming not necessarily
from the same background as
her, or Christoper Marlowe,
you mentioned.
>>I think actually
that they would
have had this understanding.
And I think that
Marlowe is central
to it, understanding Marlowe.
And in the book,
"Shakespeare's Secret Messiah,"
I do an analysis of
"The Jew of Malta."
And I show that Christopher
Marlowe understood the Flavian
typology.
He actually has probably
the clearest declaration
of who wrote the Gospels in
"The Jew of Malta," where
he has a character who
is a Jew say, you know,
no one ever called us
Christians until Titus
and Vespasian conquered us.
So they have this very
clear declaration.
And then, of course, he
has many, many others,
the kind of more cryptic thing.
But Marlowe, at least
according to the Shakespearean
literature, had a very
close relationship
with Amelia Bassano.
His real death is
actually recorded.
It's recorded symbolically in
"The Merry Maids of Windsor."
And what she does is
she writes a story
about the keeper of legal
records, who have an exchange
and conversation.
They talk about a greyhound
that was outrun on the Cotsall.
And the greyhound for
some reason, they say,
wouldn't confess.
Now, Marlowe is
compared to a greyhound.
He had kind of blondish hair.
He was executed on the
Cotsall-- that's May first.
And the statement, well,
he wouldn't confess,
that means that the privy
council-- and the story
then transitions
into a description
of the privy council, which was
this infamous star chamber that
would try to protect the
divine right of kings
against any heresy-- that
Marlowe had been taken
and executed and refused
to confess to give up
the names of the individuals
that he was working with.
And she recorded this
fact typologically.
And then this is completely
resolved by immediately
after that, she goes
into a poem of Marlowe.
This isn't a Shakespearean play.
She starts quoting
from a poem of Marlowe.
But she transmogrifies
it, and she
starts to plug in--
after Marlowe's preface,
she plugs in lines
from Psalm 137.
Psalms 137 is the
most ferocious psalm
of describing Jewish
vengeance in the Bible.
This then becomes attached
to Marlowe's poetry.
So even though this
is symbolic, this
was how she was able to
represent the true history.
The history that we're given
about this bill of fare
she actually lampoons.
And I don't want to get into
too much of the symbolism.
People can read the book if
they want to have this decoded.
So Marlowe had been
very close to her.
In fact, I think that
they were lovers.
And when he was killed, this
was actually the inspiration.
This was what drove
her so intensely.
And the fact that Marlowe
was involved in it
shows that there
was a larger group.
So you talk about
things, for example,
like the School of the Night.
People make
conjectures about this.
They talk about
Thomas Harriot, who's
a friend of Marlowe,
Walter Raleigh.
I think that this
group-- and I'm
certain of it-- they actually
knew the real origins
of Christianity.
In fact, there is
an actual letter
which states that
Marlowe has written
a book which shows that the
Gospels were the work of a man.
And this was two weeks
before he was killed.
Now, that book has
never been uncovered.
But I can guarantee
you it would basically
have been Caesar's
Messiah," because you
look at "The Jew of Malta," you
can see he knows the typology.
So it would have been
"Caesar's Messiah, except it
would have been well written.
But it had never
been discovered.
It's missing.
But the letter does exist.
So there's enough data
so you can actually
put all of these
pieces together,
and you can see that
she was at that time
living under threat of death.
Two of her cousins
had been caught
worshipping in a kind
of a set up synagogue,
and these individuals
were racked.
So Judaism had been
prohibited in Britain.
Conversos were coming
into Britain at this time,
but they couldn't practice.
>>Well, they were being expelled
from Spain, for example.
>>Exactly.
So during this era, when there
was so much tension concerning
the divine right of
kings, of holding up
Christianity as real--
>>Especially you would think
with Elizabeth, basically,
because she's comin--
basically she's being
called a heretic on top of it.
>>Absolutely.
>>So she really
has to maintain a--
>>High-level paranoia.
And so this is the literature
that was permitted, basically.
They had to write
it symbolically.
They couldn't be public.
And I think they also
did want to do it
as a historical--
something that would exist
in history in the
future, because they
wanted to mimic the Gospels.
>>So talk about-- you mentioned
the School of the Night.
>>Yeah.
>>Talk about what
that organization was,
who were the main
members, and what it
seems to have been focusing on.
>>Right.
Well, the odd thing about
the School of the Night
is that there really isn't
any evidence of his existence.
It comes from conjecture of a
line in "Love's Labour's Lost"
which is describing
things that are black.
Black is the hue of
dungeons and a series
of things that are dark.
And it's also the color
of the School of Night.
And this is being
given-- the statement's
being given by the King of
Navarre, who is a Gentile king.
Now, the author is
engaging in irony here,
because in the
Shakespearean literature,
black is the color
actually of God.
Amelia Bassano was dark-skinned.
She was known as The Moor.
That was her nickname.
Her family had the Morus
tree as its family kind
of crest, the moor-tree, which
of course then the moor-tree is
planted supposedly outside
the Stratfordian home
of the Shakespeare character.
But there is an actual document
where one of her uncles
is arrested and he is described
as a little black man.
So when the author is having the
King of Navarre talk about all
of these things that are
black, what really is happening
is that he doesn't
understand it,
but these are Satan in the
Shakespearean literature
is actually referencing the
Gospel's use of the term.
In the Gospels, Jesus is
exorcising individuals
that have a rebellious spirit.
>>Yes.
>>These are Jewish
freedom fighters.
>>Right.
Zealots.
>>Zealots.
They are being defined as
being possessed by a demon.
And what is the demon?
It is non-obedience,
rebellion from Rome.
So Amelia Bassano is continuing
this genre, basically.
But she's reversing it.
So here, dark is good, you see.
This is really what
she's saying is
that she's a
dark-skinned individual
and has a Jewish background.
And the fair is
what it is basically
threatening and illegitimate.
The Flavians, who
produced the Gospel,
the word "flavian"
in Latin means blond.
So this is the background
of Shakespeare.
This is what--
>>I see.
But the School of the Night,
you say it's conjecture,
so what is it?
>>Yeah, well, it's an
expression that what she's doing
is she's saying that the School
of the Night-- and I actually
think it did exist.
She's actually--
what she's referring
to is the school,
the group that she
was involved with that
understood the Flavian
typology.
And they had to exist
basically in silence.
Now, we know Marlowe
was inside the school.
Obviously, Bassano.
The other individuals
we can only guess at,
because there's no documents.
But I would presume that
Marlowe's friend Harriot
and William Raleigh--
and this is because--
>>Walter.
>>Walter Raleigh.
Excuse me.
This is because they are
associated with atheism.
Atheism was basically
the-- that was
what the imperial
court, the royal court
was opposed to, because
atheism equaled no belief
in the divine right of kings.
That was the political
structure they stood on.
So the fact the school
is called atheistical
means that basically they
were looking at something that
would disprove the Gospels.
>>So Shakespeare
himself was not part
of the School of the Night.
I mean, what's his
role ultimately?
And why is he the
one that's chosen
to be the name or the front
man for this collaboration?
>>Well, the individual
that-- as far as anyone
can tell, because there's so
little evidence of this guy.
But he doesn't have
the name Shakespeare.
That's the pun that I mentioned
earlier, Will Shakespeare.
They turned his name into
this double entendre.
But Shagspere would
have had nothing
to do with the
literature whatsoever.
In fact-- and this
is very easy to see--
the historical character
had a father and a daughter.
Both of them signed on to
census forms at some point.
Those are still in existence.
They signed with
the X, meaning they
were completely illiterate.
So the father signs
his name with the X.
The daughter signs
her name with the X.
The author of the
Shakespearean literature
had a vocabulary of 23,000
words and expressions.
That's the largest ever
recorded in literature.
The next largest is Milton,
and I think it's 10,000.
So the Shakespearean
author had a vocabulary
that was simply superhuman
and could not ever
possibly have anything to
do with the individual who
occurred with both
generations on either side
being illiterate.
So this individual
was just used--
>>He was notoriously
called-- what was
it-- little Latin, less Greek.
>>Yeah.
I mean, if you look
in the preface,
they say he never
blotted a line.
I wish he'd blotted 1,000.
Well, this is humor.
He never blotted a line
because he never wrote a line.
You see, the entire premise,
once you understand it,
you can see they're just
rolling on the ground laughing
at this character.
One of the things is that
women weren't permitted
into the theater at this
point, so Amelia Bassano
would have needed to have
some front for her plays
under any circumstances.
And the fact that it is
so potentially politically
explosive, I actually think that
they got the Shagspere person
because he had very
low level of intellect.
And this was what made him
attractive, because they knew
he was just completely safe.
But this is a conjecture.
But it's what I suspect
from the illiteracy of both
of the generations.
>>But do you think that--
again, the actual purpose
behind the School of the
Night, the idea of trying
to do potentially even just
show how the Gospels were
a concoction of the hierarchy
at the time, the Roman Empire
and how it still existed
to that present day
and the divine
right of kings, do
you think that these concepts
actually were understood
by the public, or do you think
it was all lost in translation?
>>There is no recording
of the documents
getting into the public domain.
Marlowe-- the only one
we have is the letter
that refers to Marlowe's book.
And since that was
seized and destroyed,
then there just aren't any.
So the group around
Shakespeare, what
exactly were their motivations,
because there would have been
reasons to bring out this
information in other ways?
You can only conjecture.
I don't really know why they
wouldn't have done that.
>>Certainly, they were
an educated audience,
so you can imagine-- I mean,
not the entire audience.
But people who were educated
would have understood allusions
like, for example, in "Macbeth"
when Lady Macbeth is saying,
out, damn spot, and he
can't get the stain out
and it reminds us of
Pontius Pilate trying
to wash the blood away, right?
>>You would think that
that would be something
that anyone who watches
Macbeth would understand,
that the whole-- there's
this period in the play that
is off the stage.
And then the timing of it, it
takes a strange length of time,
judging by the position
of the sun and the night.
And people are wondering,
why does it take so long?
Well, it's just a cryptic
way of saying they crucified.
They actually use the
king, the real king
that Macbeth is killing as
a type, a piece of typology.
And so now when Macbeth
says that the blood is a sea
incarnadine, the fancy
Latin word for blood,
and then Lady Macbeth can't
get the blood off of her hands,
yeah, what they're
doing is they're
saying that where Pontius Pilate
was able to wash his hands,
that was fiction.
What we're creating is a
character that really has
the guilt of this act
and cannot get rid of it.
So you have to
wonder, well, what
was the actual
circumstances around her?
And it's very possible that
the group was so small,
had so few individuals,
that they really
didn't have a way to or
any audience to go to.
All they had was the plays
that they could put on.
And they had to be very
cryptic and symbolic,
otherwise the star chamber
which analyzed plays
for political content
would have picked it up.
So this is what we have.
And fortunately we
have "Titus Andronicus"
and a number of
the plays that are
essentially complete
no-brainers as far
as seeing the relationship
between the typology
and the Shakespearean
literature.
>>Which ones in
particular would you say?
>>Well, "Hamlet" and "Macbeth."
I think "The Tempest" is very,
very simple to understand.
I've written analysis of that
which is not in Shakespeare's
"Secret Messiah."
But the first play that
everyone needs to read
is simply "Titus Andronicus,"
because for example, you'll
see things like
the character Aaron
taking his child
down from the cross.
The child survives
a crucifixion.
Aaron begs the Gentiles to let
this child down from a cross.
And then that child
ends up just very
subtly placed within the royal
family at the end of the play.
You just suddenly have-- there's
a little aside saying, oh,
and by the way, there he is.
The child of Aaron is with us.
Now, you compare--
now, once you start
seeing all of the
Flavian connections
and then recognize that the
last supper is represented
with Titus giving food
to the Gentile nobility,
well, now you see the family
of Aaron, because remember,
Aaron is the family that the
Flavians inserted their Roman
Christ into.
The Hasmoneans, family of
Aaron or a tribe of Aaron,
would have been
the ruling family.
This is where the
Maccabees come from.
And that's why the Shakespearean
author names the character
Aaron.
So you have a perfect symmetry,
whereas in the Gospels
they insert the Gentile
into the family of Aaron,
the royal family.
Here, it is just the reverse.
The family of Aaron inserts--
>>Jesus is the Roman insertion
to the line of David.
>>Exactly.
But here you have-- and
in fact, one question
that people have asked
is that Julie Taymor, who
produced Titus
Andronicus the movie,
she takes the ending of
the play and changes it.
And she has maybe a
four-minute vignette of one
of the Gentiles with blond
hair holding the child of Aaron
and walking into a sun.
So people have
suggested to me that she
has to understand
the occulted meaning.
And I've tried to contact her,
but she hasn't got back to me.
Maybe she'll talk to you.
>>Well, an important point
is that in this time period
of the Shakespeare's
literature, they
are rewriting the Bible, calling
it the King James Bible, right?
>>Yeah.
>>And Francis Bacon
is obviously very
much in charge of
that new Bible that's
going to perpetuate the
Christ myth into English.
Is there any
evidence that Bassano
would have been
involved in that,
or is any real correlation
between the Shakespeare project
and the creation of
this King James Bible?
>>There's really a
very witty insertion
by the Shakespearean crew
into the King James Bible.
And I think the Bassanos would
have at least been involved
on the periphery,
because at this time
there were very few people
who understood Hebrew,
so they naturally would
have been brought in.
That group, that
family would have
been brought in to some extent
to help with the Old Testament.
But in Psalm 46, 46 words from
the top, if you count down,
you have the word "shake."
If you go to the bottom
and count up 46 words,
you have the word "spear."
Now, that's very suspicious.
But the psalm that
it's inserted into
is actually a psalm
that describes basically
how Jews that are
wandering in the world
need to keep their
god to themselves
as a source of strength.
And so once Bassano
has been outed
as the author of the
Shakespearean literature,
this becomes-- I mean,
people have contested it.
They know the 46 counting
system is correct.
But they go, well,
it's just an accident.
Well, once you have the
Bassano family involved
in the production
of Shakespeare,
and they're probably involved in
the translation of the Hebrew,
then the idea this is
circumstance falls.
And what they're doing is
they're just writing the code
right in so that you can
see it in the future,
that we were actually there.
We understood the Bible.
We understood the New Testament.
>>You're saying she was outed.
But why was there never-- why
did no one ever address this?
Either in her life or
shortly thereafter,
no one ever addressed
the idea that, well,
Shakespeare really couldn't
have written these plays.
>>The character from Avon,
why she didn't do it?
>>Yeah.
Why wasn't he out
earlier, at the time
or right after his death?
>>I think it's because this
was just very cleverly done
and they wanted to
create the fiction.
And when they brought
the folio out,
it was long enough
after the fact
from when the plays
had first been produced
and in circulation that no one
really would have vetted it.
There was suspicions about
Shakespeare's authorship
very early on.
But you see, at that time,
literary criticism was really
almost a nonexistent form.
People could criticize
the plays or have
an opinion about the plays.
But the idea of doing
author scholarship,
it just didn't occur.
So we were given a history of
a character that could not have
possibly written the plays.
He didn't have the
intellectual tools.
But no one really questioned it.
And then that's
why over time then
you started having, well, it
was Bacon; well, it was Marlowe;
well, it was the Earl of Oxford.
They started
having-- in fact, now
there's probably 15 candidates.
It all stems from the fact that
there wasn't good authorship
scholarship at that time.
And so now you've
got this crazy world
where all these people
are being suggested.
I think that Amelia
Bassano is just
so strong on the historical
connections into the plays
that when "Titus Andronicus"--
when this becomes widely
understood, I just think that
she'll become shortly seen
as certainly the primary
candidate for the authorship.
>>I'm reminded of Cocteau.
He once said that he
prefers myth to history,
because history starts off
as real but ends up as myth.
And myth starts off as
fake but ends up as real.
>>Right.
>>And how do people
decipher the false histories
and the mythologies
that have been created?
>>You know, you
don't have a chance
if you don't understand the
primer that the Romans left us.
We're very fortunate
they did this.
And it's in the very
beginning of the Gospels.
It's a short passage.
Anyone can do this.
It takes probably
less than a half hour.
But the entire
pre-ministry of Jesus,
from the point where his
father Joseph has a dream
and decides to go to Egypt
to the point where Jesus
then comes back from Egypt and
goes out into the wilderness
and has these temptations
with the devil,
that structure of events all
comes from the Old Testament.
Every single story
can be shown to have
come from the Old Testament.
What you have is
concepts, names, locations
occurring in the same sequence.
>>That's typology.
And when you
understand typology,
you understand the
language of the oligarchs.
The oligarchs cannot-- and even
hidden authorship positions,
like Amelia Bassano, they
cannot speak publicly.
We live today in
the United States.
There was quite
a bit of freedom,
and so we have this
habit of speaking openly.
But this wasn't the
case for the oligarchs.
They were never able
to speak openly,
because all of the
stories they're giving,
Christianity
particularly, is basically
weaponized anthropology.
So they can't give the real
story of the first century.
They give you the
Gospels instead.
But they are vain.
They have a vanity that's
almost unimaginable.
>>Well, I would say
the oligarchs still
don't speak publicly, because
then if they speak publicly,
they reveal themselves
and they reveal the games,
as you say the
weaponization that's
taking place or the intention.
They have to only
do it through media,
through mythology
and perpetuation
of these narratives, right?
>>Exactly right.
And so they do from time
to time speak publicly.
And when they do, they
speak typologically.
And that's why I say,
look, to defend yourself,
the citizen has
to just understand
this very small structure.
It's really a
primer on typology.
And this method of
talking about one thing
but you're actually obliquely
referencing another subject,
this is how the
oligarchs communicate.
And I've shown examples of it.
For example, in JD Salinger
in Catcher in the Rye
you get all kinds of--
once you understand
how the typology is structured,
you can really make sense out
of how legacy is developed
by the oligarchs.
And so I would just hope
that every citizen in order
to defend themselves simply
look at that very short passage
at the beginning of Matthew and
understand it, understand how
the author has woven into
this fabulous tale-- you think
of the story of Jesus,
Joseph has the dreams
and heads down to Egypt.
Well, where does that come from?
The Joseph who dreamed
dreams and went to Egypt,
this is the Joseph from
the Old Testament, you see.
The author, right off
the bat he's telling you
this is-- and he
has a point, though,
because what he's saying is
this character I'm developing
is divine.
There is a divine
pattern over his life
that links him backwards.
But it's also vanity, because
the author knows perfectly well
that sophisticated people
are going to realize,
hey, this whole story
of Jesus is fake.
So what's the point?
It's vanity.
Anyway, so that would be
how we can defend ourselves.
First of all,
understanding typology.
The second way is we
have to understand
neurolinguistic programming.
That's a different subject,
but they understand--
they study the mind and they
learn how to code influence
into it, propaganda.
They know this very, very well.
So we need to know
typology and we need to--
and then the last thing would
be I would say the fallacies.
You know, there's
so much sophistry.
The arguments are ludicrous if
you have a training in logic.
You can see, wait a second.
He's just lying to me
or it's a fake argument.
But people are not trained
to notice the fallacies.
So study the fallacies,
study typology,
and know a little bit about
neurolinguistic programming
and believe me, you'll be
able to defend yourself.
>>That sounds good.
Thank you so much
for your time today.
>>Thank you so much.
>>Really appreciate it.
There you go, folks,
some fascinating insights
from Joseph Atwill.
You may not agree with or
believe everything said here,
but I do urge you to check out
his book, "Shakespeare's Secret
Messiah."
The road to truth is a perilous
path, along the buzzsaw's edge.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
And remember, you
are the revolution.
[THEME MUSIC]